A former Trump Organization executive said she thinks President  Trump will resign before the impeachment inquiry, brought on by    a whistleblower complaint, is complete. 
  The move mirrors that of former President Richard Nixon, who  resigned from office before his own impeachment after the  emergence of the   Watergate scandal.
  Barbara Res, a former Trump Organization vice president, told    CNN’s Brian Stelter that Trump may resign, given his previous  track record of doing “things to save face.”
  “There are some things that he can’t control, and he’s now at the  point where he can’t control this,” Res told CNN. “He can’t do  anything about this.”
  Like Nixon, Res told CNN that she thinks impeachment is a worse  fate than resigning from office for Trump, which could  potentially erode his political reputation.
  “It would be very, very, very bad for him to be impeached,” Res  said. “I don’t know that he would be found guilty, but I don’t  think he wants to be impeached.”
 Read more:   Congress is using the Watergate playbook to take on Trump and  drum up support for his impeachment
  Since House Speaker Nancy Pelosi launched an official impeachment  inquiry into the president at the end of September, House  committees have subpoenaed several Trump officials, and   additional whistleblowers have spoken up about the Ukraine  scandal.
  After denying that he withheld military aid to Ukraine in return  for an investigation into former Vice President Joe Biden and his  son Hunter Biden, Trump subsequently told reporters at the White  House that he encouraged China to investigate the Bidens as well.
  Res told CNN she sees Trump’s latest political moves as made in a  panic. On Monday, Trump announced that he would pull US forces  out of Syria in a rambling Twitter thread, which was met with  backlash from other GOP members, including Sen. Lindsey Graham,  who is known to stand by the president in the past.
  “My gut tells me he’ll leave office; he’ll resign,” she told CNN.  “Or make some kind of a deal even, depending on what comes out.”
  This isn’t the first time the subject of a potential presidential  resignation has been broached. A 2017 article by Quartz  written  less than a month after Trump took office – noted that the online  betting site Ladbrokes said there was a   48% chance Trump would either be impeached or resign before  completing his first term.