When the Navy destroyer USS Donald Cook sailed into the Baltic  Sea in April 2016, it had been more than two years since Russia  seized Crimea from Ukraine.
  Tensions between Russia and its NATO and European neighbors were  still high, and the intervening period had seen a number of  uncomfortable and even unsafe encounters between their forces,  for which NATO often criticized Russia.
  Adm. James Foggo, then a vice admiral in charge of the Navy’s  Sixth Fleet, had those in mind as the Cook sailed into the  Baltic.
 
  “I had warned them going up there that as they passed through the  Danish Straits and into the Baltic that they should be prepared  for something like that and that the only way that the world  would recognize that it happened is if they had a recording or a  photograph,” Foggo, now commander of US Naval Forces Europe and  Naval Forces Africa, said on the US Naval Institute’s Proceedings podcast.
  “So the commanding officer [of the Cook], Chuck Hampton, told me  afterward, ‘Well, I had six combat cameramen on each bridge  wing.’ And I was like, ‘Wow, that’s a lot,'” Foggo said.
  “He goes, ‘Well, you told me if something happened I had to be  prepared,'” Foggo added. “So that was part of their ‘man battle  stations’ type drill for close-aboard contacts.”
  Guided-missile destroyers like the Cook are the Navy’s premier  air-defense platforms and are often tasked with guarding other  ships, aircraft carriers in particular.
 
  The encounter with two Su-24 fighter jets, which took place about  80 nautical miles from the Russian Baltic exclave of  Kaliningrad, was one of two the US destroyer had on April 11  and 12, 2016.
  On April 12, a Russian helicopter flew around the Cook seven  times at low altitude in what the ship’s commander deemed “unsafe  and unprofessional” passes.
  A short time later, two Su-24s made 11 more close-range,  low-altitude passes in what the Navy said was “a simulated attack  profile.” The jets didn’t respond to safety advisories from the  Cook, whose commander deemed several of their maneuvers “unsafe  and unprofessional.”
  The April 11 incident was especially dangerous because of what  the Cook was doing and because of how the Russian pilot behaved.
 
  “What a lot of people don’t know is that at the time they were  doing what we call a ‘hot-pump’ of a Polish aircraft that was  doing deck landing [qualifications],” Foggo said.
  “So the Polish helicopter had landed and was being refueled while  the rotors were turning, and here comes this Russian hot dog in  his jet, doing several hundred knots, and the distance between  wingtip and the deck of Donald Cook was about 30 feet,” Foggo  added.
  That was the closest of the 20 passes the Russian jets made that  day, according to US officials, who said the Russians flew so  close they created wakes in the water and that it was among the  “most aggressive” Russian acts  in some time.
 
  The fly-by that took place during the refueling was deemed unsafe by the Cook’s  commanding officer, and the ship suspended flight operations  until the Su-24s left the area.
  “I asked Gen. [Philip] Breedlove and Gen. [Frank] Goranc …  ‘would you ever fly your F-16 that close to a moving platform  like Donald Cook?'” Foggo said.
  “And they said, ‘No way, if the guy sneezed he might have buried  his wing into the Donald Cook,'” Foggo added. “Now what would’ve  happened then? We’d be explaining that this was a pilot error and  not a shoot-down of that aircraft.”
  Breedlove and Goranc are retired Air Force generals and fighter  pilots who both led US Air Forces in Europe and Africa; Breedlove  was also NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander in Europe and head of US  European Command.
 
  Encounters between NATO ships and aircraft and their Russian  counterparts increased after the seizure of Crimea. US forces  involved frequently deemed those encounters “unsafe.”
  In years prior, “the Russians would typically fly with what we  call a ‘wings clean’ configuration, which is no weapons on the  wings,” Foggo said on the podcast. “Now in the interactions and  the intercepts I see today, they’re coming out ‘wings dirty,’ or  they have weapons on board.”
  “That’s another bit of the calculus that goes in the commanding  officer’s mind on … what is the intent of that pilot, and at  what point is [the commanding officer] obliged to defend his ship  under defensive rules of engagement,” Foggo said.
  Foggo didn’t elaborate on those rules of engagement, but a  European Command spokesman told Navy Times at the time  that the Cook’s commanding officer didn’t feel threatened, and a  retired Navy commanding officer said that, under the  circumstances, the Russian aircraft didn’t present a credible  threat.
 
  Encounters at sea still happen but are less frequent, Foggo said.
  “I don’t have as many negative interactions … between Russian  Federation navy and US or NATO assets,” he said. “They tend to  act very professionally. It’s mostly in the air with intercepts,  and those could possibly be due to different pilots … is it an  air force guy in the cockpit or a navy guy? It depends, and every  situation is different.”
  US Air Force Gen. Tod Wolters, NATO’s current Supreme Allied  Commander in Europe and head of US European Command, said this  summer that encounters had decreased and that “unsafe” intercepts  had “diminished tremendously.”
  “What I can assure this audience is that well over 99% of the  intercepts that occur in the air are actually safe,” Wolters said  at an event in Brussels in June. “In many of the cases where  they’re unsafe, when you take a look at the experience level of  the operators that were involved, it typically turns into a young  man or woman that was probably just hot-dogging it a little bit  more than they should.”
  “For every one intercept that a Russian aviator commits against a  NATO aircraft, we actually have three NATO intercepts” of Russian  aircraft, Wolters added, according to Military Times.  “That gives you a little bit of a feel for the readiness  disposition of your NATO force.”