Nick Bosa and the San Francisco 49ers defense made life tough for  Baker Mayfield on Monday night.
  Through just one half of football, the 49ers forced three  turnovers out of the Browns, with Bosa causing havoc for the  Cleveland offensive line.
  As the first half wound to a close, the Browns attempted to get  one more drive going, only for Bosa to blow up Mayfield in the  backfield and force an intentional grounding penalty that would  end the first half.
  After making the play, Bosa celebrated by waving and planting an  imaginary flag.


Nick Bosa out here planting the revenge flag. pic.twitter.com/VqaP0lFQwN
— Field Yates (@FieldYates) October 8, 2019


  The move was a bit of revenge for Bosa, mocking a celebration  Mayfield made against his Ohio State Buckeyes.
 Read more: Oklahoma quarterback Baker  Mayfield reportedly lost his cool with some belligerent Ohio  State fans and predicted his team’s big comeback
  After Mayfield led Oklahoma to victory against the Buckeyes at  the Horseshoe, he famously grabbed an OU flag and brought it out  to midfield, where he waved it from side to side before planting  it in the ground. 


Baker Mayfield planting the Oklahoma flag in the middle of the Ohio State O at the Horseshoe is as savage as it gets. pic.twitter.com/PrtgtUvmzL
— Big Cat (@BarstoolBigCat) September 10, 2017




  At the time, some fans thought the move was disrespectful, and  it’s clear that Bosa, who was at Ohio State at the time, didn’t  especially appreciate the gesture.
  Fans on Twitter were quick to shout out Bosa for getting his  revenge.


Excuse me while I drop $150 on a Bosa jersey. https://t.co/VKVelCzgzP
— Beppe ????️‍???? ↙️↙️↙️ (@buckeyedinapoli) October 8, 2019

Best thing I have seen in a long time: Nick Bosa “planting the flag” after sacking Baker Mayfield on MNF. #Buckeyes
— Joe Holmes (@thejoeholmes) October 8, 2019

Man.   Nick Bosa playing the long game.  That’s some next level revenge. https://t.co/VELXv0osYf
— John Hime (@ImJohnHime) October 8, 2019


  It took two years, but Bosa got his revenge.


 Colts quarterback Jacoby Brissett told his  coach they should ‘run it down their throats’ before using an  old-school offensive attack to upset the Chiefs
 Top 13 waiver-wire pickups for Week 6 of  fantasy football
 Steelers quarterback Mason Rudolph knocked  out cold after hit but walks off field in scary scene
 Former NFL wide receiver Percy Harvin says he  was high for every game he played in his 8-year career