I pay a lot in credit card annual fees – more than $4,000 per  year in total. That may seem like an absurd amount, but I get a  ton of benefits and value out of my credit cards. Plus,   I spend about eight months out of the year traveling  internationally, so it’s not hard for me to take advantage of  the travel perks my cards offer. 
  Here are the details of my cards, their annual fees, and why I’m  happy to pay them – in approximate order of how important the  cards are to me and which benefits justify me keeping the card.  While I do have some cards without annual fees that I love, those  will not be included here.
 Read more: The  best no-annual-fee credit cards of 2019
 Keep in mind that we’re focusing on the rewards and perks  that make these credit cards great options, not things like  interest rates and late fees, which can far outweigh the value of  any rewards.
 When you’re working to earn credit card rewards, it’s  important to practice financial discipline, like paying your  balances off in full each month, making payments on time, and not  spending more than you can afford to pay back. Basically,  treat your credit card like a debit card.
  While some cards may have overlapping benefits, once I’ve  mentioned a benefit offered by one card (e.g.,   Priority Pass lounge access), that benefit will not weigh  into whether or not I keep a card that is lower down on my list.  I have a few cards that charge annual fees that are no longer  available for new applications, so those have not been included  in this analysis.
  I’m splitting my cards into two categories: my “spending cards”  and my “holding cards.” Some of my cards have benefits like an  annual free night reward that make it worth it for me to keep  them, but not generally spend money on, while other cards offer  great spending benefits as well, such as strong bonus rewards. 
  Here’s why it makes sense for me to spend over $4,000 per year on  credit card annual fees.
 Annual fee: $450
  This is my most important credit card. It offers a $300 annual  travel credit each year, which effectively brings the annual fee  down to $150. And it offers up to a $100   Global Entry fee credit every four years. 
  Since Global Entry is valid for five years, this benefit is  effectively worth $20 per year, further reducing the annual fee  to $130. For that $130, I earn 3x points on travel (and dining  purchases, but I use a different card for dining),   Priority Pass lounge access,   trip delay and cancellation insurance coverage, lost and  delayed baggage insurance coverage, and   primary car rental insurance.
 Read more:   Chase Sapphire Reserve card review
 
 Annual fee: $550
  Even though the   Amex Platinum has a whopper of an annual fee, it’s still on  my keep list, at least for now. This card offers   up to $200 in airline fee credits and   up to $200 in Uber credits each year. While I would rather  have that money in the form of actual cash, I do not have a  problem using both of those credits, effectively bringing the  annual fee for this card down to $150 for me. For that $150, I  gain access to   American Express Centurion Lounges, which I use at least a  few times per year. When the new Denver location opens next year,  it’s a benefit I will use very regularly.
  Additionally, I have the ability to earn 5x points for airline  bookings made with the airline or at Amex Travel. I don’t use  this card to book airfare for myself because I prefer to  sacrifice the extra 2 points per dollar and book with my Sapphire Reserve in exchange for travel  insurance, but I do book flights for other people quite often,  and the ability to earn these extra 2 points per dollar works out  great then! I estimate that I earn 12,000 to 15,000 points per  year from these 2 extra points per dollar by booking flights for  other people.
 Read more:   Amex Platinum review – $2,000 of value in my first year, despite  the $550 annual fee
 Annual fee: $495
  Even though Citi   recently cut many travel coverage benefits and added  limitations to the 4th Night Free benefit for hotel stays  benefit, the Citi Prestige is still in my wallet for three main  reasons.
  First, this card offers a $250 annual travel credit, which  effectively brings the annual fee down to $245. It also earns 5x  points on dining purchases, and I eat out a lot. This is two  points more than the Chase Sapphire Reserve offers per dollar and I  estimate that this earns me an extra 12,000 to 15,000 points per  year, which I value around $200-$250.
  Finally, while the 4th Night Free at hotels benefit is not as  valuable as it once was (it’s now limited to two uses per year),  I still will have no problem using it once or twice per year.  Conservatively, this will save me $200 per year. And as a bonus  feature that I hope I’ll never have to use, the Citi Prestige  offers cell phone insurance when you pay your cell phone bill  with the card.
 Read more:   4 credit cards that insure your cell phone to pay for repairs or  replacement
 Annual fee: $450
  I don’t spend on this card too often, but every once in a while  its 1.5 miles per dollar comes in handy. But the main reason I  keep this card is that it gets me access to United Club airport  lounges.
  Since Denver is my home airport and a United hub, United Club  access comes in handy. Next year when the Centurion Lounge opens,  keeping this card may no longer make sense, but for now, it’s the  cheapest way into United lounges.
 Annual fee: $595
  These annual fees just keep going up, and to be completely honest  I’m not sure that I’ll keep my Business Platinum  when the annual fee comes  due again. But for right now it’s worth it for me for one main  reason: the year of Platinum Global Access WeWork membership. 
  Since I work remotely, the ability to access coworking spaces  around the world is incredibly valuable to me, and getting a  year-long WeWork membership for only $595 is a steal. (It’s  available for a year for cardholders who enroll by December 31,  2019.) Additionally, the Business Platinum Card offers up to $200 in  airline fee credits and up to $200 in Dell credits each year.
 Read more:   The best small-business credit cards
 Annual fee: $450
  This card offers four standout benefits: a free weekend night at  a Hilton hotel, complimentary top-tier Hilton Diamond status  (which includes free breakfast at Hilton hotels), up to a $250  Hilton resort credit each year, and up to a $250 airline fee  credit.
  After considering the resort credit, the annual fee for this card  is brought down to effectively $200, and if we conservatively  value the free night certificate at $100, the annual fee comes  down to only $100. And there’s still the $250 airline fee credit,  so the   Aspire card is a complete no-brainer for me! Complimentary  Hilton Diamond status is just the icing on the cake.
 Read more: Hilton  Honors Aspire review – why I willingly pay the $450 annual  fee
 Annual fee: $450
  You read that right: yet another card with a $450 annual fee. But  this one makes sense for me too: Each year, I get a $300 Marriott  statement credit and a free night at a Marriott hotel that costs  up to 50,000 points. I stay at Marriott hotels pretty regularly,  enough to qualify for Platinum status, so the $300 credit is easy  to use. I can easily get $100 to $150 in value from the free  night certificate, and often much more (this year, it was almost  $400!).
 Annual fee: $95
  Another Marriott card, and for one reason only: the free night  certificate. The free night certificate from this card is worth  up to 35,000 points, and it’s not a problem at all for me to find  a use for it where I’m getting more than $95 in value.
 Read more: The  best hotel credit cards
 Annual fee: $89
  Each year, I earn a certificate valid for a hotel night costing  up to 40,000 points. It’s not uncommon for me to need a hotel  stay, and it’s a pretty good deal to effectively stay for a night  for $89.
 Read more:   IHG Rewards Club Premier card review – one of the most underrated  hotel credit cards
 Annual fee: $95
  The World of Hyatt Credit Card offers a free night certificate  each year for a Category 1-4 Hyatt hotel. Just like with the  other hotel cards, it’s easy to cover the cost of the annual fee  with this card.
 
 Annual fee: $149
  I just upgraded my Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card to  the Southwest Priority Credit Card. This card offers 7,500 bonus  points each year on the account anniversary (worth around $90)  and a $75 Southwest travel credit each year. These two benefits  alone make this card break even for me (I always fly Southwest at  least once per year), and it also offers four upgraded boarding  passes per year.
 Annual fee: $75
  Similar, but not the same as the other hotel cards listed here, I  earn 40,000 points each year when I renew my card. I can use  those points for multiple hotel nights or I can save them up from  year to year and redeem for a hotel costing more than 40,000  points. I like the flexibility this gives me, and I will gladly  pay $75 to essentially buy 40,000 points.