Holiday season spending is poised to slow this year, according to  Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
  Tariffs, warmer weather, a shorter holiday season, and increased  inventory would all be to blame for weaker sales, the bank’s  analysts wrote in a Monday note. The bank projected same-store  sales to grow by 2.7% in the fourth quarter, down from 3.8% last  holiday season.
  Online sales growth and weakening consumer demand also threaten  retailers this holiday season,   UBS analysts wrote in a September 23 note. E-commerce sales  growth hit a six-year high in 2019 after surging 25%, according  to the bank.
  The US consumer “remains healthy” despite growing fears of  economic recession, the team of BAML analysts said. Should the  retail industry face a holiday headwind, certain value stores  could benefit from discount-seeking customers, they added.
  Here are the three companies BAML expects to outperform the  retail industry this holiday season.
 Read more:   More than 250 retailers are expected to offer competing discounts  on Amazon Prime Day – and some are using not-so-subtle phrases  like ‘prime time’ to promote their sales

  The analysts named Aaron’s  their “Retail Hardlines top pick” for its acceleration in invoice  volume growth and strong appeal among low-income consumers.  Aaron’s Progressive Leasing business offers a lease-to-own  financing option for customers, and has led to partnerships with  large retailers like Best  Buy.
  Only a “low-mid single digit percentage” of Aaron’s products is  imported from China, insulating the business from tariff-related  profit squeezes, the team led by Lorraine Hutchinson wrote. Its  lease contracts also help spread revenue over a longer period of  time, making the shorter holiday season less of an issue.
  Warmer weather should have a smaller impact as well, “since  seasonal products represent a very small percentage of sales,”  the BAML analysts said.
  The bank rates Aaron’s stock “buy” with a $75 per share price  objective.

 Burlington  Stores is the bank’s “Specialty Retail top pick,” with its  positive potential for improved margins and strong inventory  situation setting the company up for a strong fourth quarter.
  The team of analysts also pointed to tariff-sourced retail  disruption as a boon for Burlington sales. Only 6% of the  company’s products are directly imported, and not all of them are  from China, according to the note. Burlington management is  positioning the company to attract shoppers should competitors  transfer tariff costs directly to consumers.
  “The off price industry historically has benefited from retail  disruption,” the analysts wrote.
  The team also praised Burlington’s leaders for improving its  inventory situation. Last year’s holiday season saw the company  face a product shortage during critical sales weeks. The company  is likely to adjust its inventory count for upcoming holiday  sales and improve its logistics accordingly, the note said.
  “We think leaner overall inventory combined with products focused  on strong holiday and winter categories will help improve 4Q  sell-through,” the analysts wrote.
  The bank rates Burlington stock “buy” with a $225 per share price  objective.

  The team of analysts named Target  their “Discount Store top pick” for the holidays, noting its  “impressive traffic” and sales growth has set the chain up for a  strong fourth-quarter performance. The company’s appeal to its  key low- and middle-income consumers “remains healthy,” and  Target’s smaller urban locations continue to bring strong  results, BAML said.
  The retail company’s “stores as hubs” strategy – which allows  Target to quickly ship items to online customers from its retail  locations – allows it to offer more fulfillment options than  other discount stores, the note added.
  The bank rates Target stock “buy” with a $125 per share price  objective.
 Now read more markets coverage from Markets Insider  and Business Insider:
   Climate-change protesters pour fake blood on Wall Street bull  statue as part of ‘die-in’ demonstration
   Nvidia surges on RBC upgrade that projects gaming strength and  triple-digit data center growth
   We talked to a top Uber exec about how the ride-hailing giant is  betting on healthcare to reach a new set of  customers