Whenever I visit my hometown of Orange County, California, I get  to sip some of the purest drinking water in the country.
  The quality is   sometimes hard to spot, since many   drinking water contaminants are odorless, tasteless, and  invisible to the human eye. Even in cities where   the water is contaminated with lead, residents have reported  that their taps are crystal clear.
  But in Orange County, the water is actually as clean as it looks.
  It wasn’t always that way. In his new book, “Troubled  Water,” activist Seth Siegel explains how Orange County’s  taps went from having too much saltwater to spouting the purest  drinking water in the US.
  Orange County is just 35 miles away from Los Angeles, but it  relies on a completely different water system to serve its nearly  3.2 million residents. About a decade ago, that system begin  churning out the most pristine water the country has ever seen.
  From about the 1930s to the 1970s, farmers over-pumped water  through Orange County’s underground aquifers, the bodies of  porous rock that act as a natural filtration system. The process  allowed seawater to seep into the county’s freshwater supply –  what’s known as “saltwater intrusion” – and threatened to expose  residents to excess sodium in their taps.
  Though   scientists are still studying the health effects of too much  sodium in drinking water, early research suggests it could lead  to hypertension and  chronic kidney disease.
  Orange County prevented this scenario by getting people to drink  recycled water instead.
 
  In 2008, the county unveiled a Groundwater Replenishment System  that purifies wastewater from the local sewage system and turns  it into clean drinking water.
  Many cities have   struggled to implement the system due to pushback from local  residents who aren’t keen on drinking water that originated in  their toilets. But more than 4 million Americans – including  residents of Dallas, Phoenix, and Atlanta – now get at least a  portion of their drinking water from treated sewage.
 Read more:   11 cities with the worst tap water in the US
  But Orange County’s process is unique because it filters for  inorganic contaminants – things like pesticides and industrial  chemicals that are hard to detect in water, and may still be  allowed under federal law.
  The US Environmental Protection Agency currently has   drinking water regulations for more than 90 contaminants, but  Siegel said more than 100,000 chemicals and pharmaceutical  compounds escape regulation.
  “What makes Orange County so special is they say, ‘Okay, fine,  the federal rules are X. We don’t really care. We’re going to go  so far beyond those rules that we’re going to make the purest  water flow we can possibly have,'” he told Business Insider.
  Orange County’s filtration process begins like most “toilet to  tap” systems in the US. Household sewage arrives at local  wastewater treatment facilities, where it’s filtered by screens.  Then friendly bacteria is added to get rid of lingering organic  material (aka human waste).
  Most communities allow this treated water to be discharged into  public waterways, but Orange County’s process doesn’t stop there.
  Next, the water heads to the Groundwater Replenishment System,  where it passes through another set of filters with holes so tiny  that they’re invisible to the human eye. Mike Wehner, the  assistant general manager at the Orange County Water District,  told Siegel that the holes are 150 times smaller than the width  of a human hair.
 
  From there, the water goes through reverse osmosis, a process  that extracts salt, minerals, chemicals, and pharmaceutical  compounds.
  The water that emerges is free of minerals, so it’s slightly  acidic, which means it can corrode local pipes. So the county  adds crushed limestone back into the water supply to neutralize  the pH. From there, it disinfects the water by zapping it with  ultraviolet light. This ensures that not a single molecule of  waste can survive.
  “It’s not fair to say that a contaminant could never possibly be  in Orange County’s water,” Siegel said. But the community’s taps,  he added, are “as pure as pure can be.”
  Orange County’s “toilet to tap” system was expensive – around    $480 million to get off the ground. But Siegel makes the  argument in his book that almost any city can replicate the  process for cheaper.
 
  In many poor communities, he said, water fees aren’t actually  used to improve the local water system by investing in water  infrastructure and technology. The majority of these fees, he  said, go toward the municipal budget.
  “Flint actually had the highest water fees in the United States  when the crisis broke,” Siegel said. “What they did wrong was  they diverted money from water fees to the general budget.”
  Based on his conversation with Wehner, Siegel estimates that  having water as pure as Orange County’s would cost communities an  extra $33 per person per year. (That’s after replaying any loans  used to build the system, and not including state and federal  subsidies.)
  As filtration technologies become more advanced, he said, that  cost could drop even lower.
  “Now that Orange County has led the way and spent fortunes of  money to figure it out, everybody can adopt more or less the  Orange County system at not a phenomenal expense,” Siegel said.  “Why isn’t everyone doing it? The answer is: because nobody’s  pushing them to.”