President Donald Trump signed a final trade agreement with Japan  on Monday that would reopen some of the markets farmers had lost  access to after the US withdrew from a multilateral Asia-Pacific  pact in early 2017. 
  “I think we’re at a stage with Japan where our relationship has  never been better than it is right now,” Trump said at a press  conference in the Roosevelt Room, portraying the deal as a major  win for farmers and ranchers. 
  US officials estimated the deal would reduce tariffs for roughly  $7 billion worth of American agricultural products including  cheese, wine, beef, pork, wheat, and almonds. The US would in  turn lower tariffs on Japanese industrial goods under the  agreement, which would also set stricter terms for digital trade  between the two sides. 
  But critics have   said it only recovered a portion of the benefits from the  Trans-Pacific Partnership, a now 11-country trade agreement Trump  withdrew the US from within his first week in office. 
  “Why we’d walk away from that in order to take this is beyond  me,” Democratic Senator Tom Carper, the ranking member of the  Environment and Public Works Committee, said on Bloomberg TV last  month. “Is it better than nothing? It is. But it’s not even close  to the Trans-Pacific Partnership.”
  The agreement did not touch on current auto tariffs or additional  ones that Trump threatened Japan with last year   on the basis of national security concerns. Japanese Prime  Minister Shinzo Abe has said he was assured the country would be  spared from such measures, but that was not explicitly laid out  in the text. 
  “It certainly is the Japanese ambition to have car tariffs be  discussed,” US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a  call with reporters after the deal was reached. “But at this  point, it’s not part of this agreement.”
  The Trump administration has increasingly sought to placate  farmers, who have suffered financial losses from broader tariff  disputes with China and other trading partners. After a   separate World Trade Organization decision last week, the US  said it would hit the European Union with tariffs on agricultural  items and hundreds of other imports.
  While Trump has found support in calls to address Chinese trade  practices seen as unfair, critics warned American allies should  be involved in that process. The president has separated himself  from that approach in office as he withdrew from deals like the  TPP and   slapped metal tariffs on the EU and elsewhere.
  “Bigger picture, as we sign these deals with our largest trading  partners – Japan, USMCA, EU – it puts increasing pressure on  China to ink a deal with us,” said Dave Walton, a soybean farmer  in Iowa. “They do so by making China see them as competitors for  our trade.”
  The agreement was announced on a preliminary basis in August. On  the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York  last month, the US and Japan signed an agreement-in-principle.  The move on Monday afternoon concluded the final text of the  deal.
 Now read:   Ray Dalio warns the White House’s latest plan to clamp down on  Chinese investment could soon become a reality. Here’s why he  thinks ‘all market participants need to worry.’