On Friday, Hong Kong Leader Carrie Lam announced an immediate  city-wide ban on protesters wearing face masks.
  She said it   had to be done, because most of the protesters vandalizing  the city were doing it with their faces covered. The ability to  hide their identity meant protesters could evade the law and act  more daring, she said.
   Protesters wear the masks because they fear reprisal from  China’s ever-ubiquitous surveillance of dissidents, aided by the  government’s   widespread use of facial recognition technology.
  The ban was passed under an emergency law from the colonial era.  It’s the first time it’s been used since 1967, and it was  originally passed to stop   a seamen’s strike in 1922.
  Banning masked protesters has also happened in the US, Europe,  and Russia in the last two centuries.
  Here are some of the places where masks or face coverings are  banned in public.

  The law was a response to   tenant farmers who were anonymously attacking the police  after wheat prices rose. New York police used the law again in  2011 to   arrest Occupy Wall Street protesters.
  However, it’s not a blanket  ban. In 1999, the Klu Klux Klan managed to get a district  court to revoke a ban on wearing masks for a demonstration in  Manhattan, before the federal appeals court   reapplied the ban.
  The law does let people wear masks for events like Halloween,  though.

 Source: The  New York Times

  California still has a restriction though. After the case, it  enacted a law that made it illegal to wear a mask while committing  a crime. 

 Sources:   DCist

 Sources: The  New York Times, Ohio

 Source:   Sun Sentinel

 Source:   Atlanta News Now

  But there’s no   specific law that makes it a criminal offense for protesters  to have covered their faces in the public yet. It could happen  though. In September 2019, state Sen. Dean Tran said it was time  to impose such a law.

 Source:   Michigan Legislature

 Source: North  Carolina General Assembly

 Sources: Columbia  Journal of Transnational Law,   KFYR,   North Dakota Legislature

 Source:   Virginia Law

 Source: The  New York Times

 Sources:   Washington Post,   SCMP

  An earlier draft had   included a complete ban on wearing masks during protests,  which was known as the “gag law,” but it didn’t make it into the  final law.

 Source:   CBC

 Source:   Vice

  But police often pick up masked protesters despite the ruling,    the Washington Post reported.

  However,   police can only act if they think the mask is to conceal the  protester’s identity, or to protect themselves from things like  pepper spray.

  If caught,   protesters could be imprisoned for up to one year and  fined $17,000.

  One of the reasons for   the bans was to help lessen fears of a growing Islamic  militant force. In Belgium, liberals argued that being unable to  identify people who are wearing burkas was a security risk. They  also called the burka “a  walking prison” for women.
  But Muslim rights groups have said these sorts of laws are    discriminatory.
  Catalonia’s Immigration Minister told   The Guardian in 2010: “At this rate we will end up with more  bans than burqas.”

  The day it was enacted, tens of thousands of masked protesters  took to the streets, chanting things like, “I want to wear face  masks,” and, “Wearing masks is not a crime.”
  Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University, told  CBS News it   was a dangerous first step, and if it doesn’t work it could  lead to curfews and more infringements on the freedoms of  individuals.