The US is considering pulling out of a vital treaty with European  allies and Russia, according to the chairman of the House Foreign  Relations Committee.
  In a letter sent to National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien,  Rep. Eliot Engel of New York on Monday said he was “deeply  concerned” by reports that the White House was considering  withdrawing from the Open Skies Treaty.
  “I request your personal engagement on this matter to ensure that  the United States does not unwisely and rashly withdraw from [the  treaty], which continues to serve American national security  interests and is particularly important as a check against  further Russian aggression against Ukraine,” Engel wrote.
  The Open Skies  Treaty was signed by the US, Russia, and 22 other countries  in an effort to promote transparency amongst nations. Thirty-four  countries are now members of the treaty, which was initially  signed in 1992.
  Under Open Skies, countries that are part of the treaty must  notify other nations 72 hours in advance of missions to conduct  an observational flight, to which the host country has one day to  respond.
  Daryl Kimball, the executive director of the Arms Control  Association, agrees that the treaty has been beneficial for the  US, its allies, and even Russia.
  “The treaty provides information about Russian military  activities for the US and allies in Europe,” Kimball said to  Business Insider. “And it also provides the Russians with some  insight about some of our capabilities. And that transparency  reduces uncertainty and the risk of conflict due to worst-case  assumptions.”
 
 Read more: ‘The  President eats his own’: Military veterans in Congress unload on  Trump for abandoning a US ally in the ISIS fight
   Earlier this year, a Russian Tu-154 aircraft conducted an  observational mission over Great Falls, Montana, and took aerial  photographs for several days.
  “This is not a spying operation,” Kimball said. “These are  observational flights. It is a form of monitoring and  verification about the military activities and facilities on each  side.”
  Kimball said the US has significant satellite capabilities that  could mitigate a potential lapse in observational flights, but  added that a potential pullout from the treaty may affect US  allies.
  “Where this is particularly valuable is for our allies who don’t  have these capabilities,” Kimball said. “We should not dispense  with this treaty that’s been working for a couple of decades  now.”
  There has been tension between the US and Russia over the treaty,  due to claims from both countries that the other is violating  Open Skies.
  In 2018, Russian officials accused the US of violating the spirit  of the agreement by not approving its aircraft to conduct  observational missions, according to   Defense News. Russian media outlets also reportedly claimed  the US had completely withdrawn from the treaty, which US  officials denied.
  The US in turn has also accused Russia of restricting its flight  access. US officials previously claimed that Russia was   violating the treaty by restricting flights in Kaliningrad, a  heavily-militarized area that is home to short-range missiles. In  response to Russia’s denial, Republican Sen. Tom Cotton of  Arkansas characterized the outrage as hypocrisy and advocated for  the US withdraw from the treaty.
  “It’s rich for the Russians to protest the US’s refusal to  certify one of their planes for the Open Skies Treaty when they  routinely restrict surveillance flights over Kaliningrad,” Cotton  said in a   tweet. “The Open Skies Treaty is out of date and favors  Russia, and the best way forward is to leave it.”
  Despite the impasse, Engel said the US should not haphazardly  withdraw from the treaty: “US relations with Russia have become  more acrimonious and complicated in the last decade,” he said in  his letter. “The United States should prepare for the challenge  that Russia presents – not abandon mechanisms that provide the  United States with an important tool in maintaining surveillance  on Russia.”
  Kimball agreed and said there were still strategic benefits for  the US to uphold its commitment to the treaty.
  “I don’t see any practical value in pulling out,” Kimball said.  “It doesn’t gain any capability that we are being denied, it  doesn’t deny the Russians information that they can’t otherwise  obtain through their own satellites,” he said. “This is a  confidence-building treaty that is particularly valuable to our  European allies, and particularly in a time of increasing  US-Russian tensions.” 
  The US State Department and the National Security Council did not  respond to requests for comment.