Other than decreasing your stress over whether you’ll get what  you need in time for when you need it, the “Buy Online, Pick Up  in Store” option is also useful for:
  While the basic premise of “Buy Online, Pick Up in Store” is  similar across stores, there are some subtle differences that are  important to note, especially regarding return, hold, and charge  policies.
  For each store below, we’ve broken down the different pickup  options, what to do after you place your order, what you need at  the store, what to do if you’d like someone else to pick up the  order, and how long your order will be held at the store.

 Pickup options: Look for “Free Order Pickup” when adding  an item to your cart on Target’s website. You can also shop from  a list of free-order-pickup eligible items by browsing any  category and selecting “Free order pickup” from the availability  dropdown.
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the Guest Services counter at the store to pick  up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo  ID.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  You can add or change an alternate pickup person on the  order details page by editing the “Delivery” section. This person  needs to bring their own photo ID. 
 How long your order will be held at the  store: Seven days. If your order isn’t picked up after  this time period, your order will be canceled and you won’t be  charged. You can extend your pickup window by one day by signing  into your online account or visiting your order details  page.

 Pickup options: When you’re looking at a  category or search results, go to “Shop your store” and enter  your zip code to filter the results accordingly. Then  select the store at checkout. 
  The order is usually available for pickup within two hours,  though it can take longer during busier times like the holidays.  
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  (usually within four hours of order) before you go to the store  to pick up your item, or in some locations, have an employee  bring your order directly to your car. 
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and  the credit card used at checkout.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  Contact the store directly to update the pickup  information for the new person. 
 How long your order will be held at the  store: Seven days. If your order isn’t picked up after  this time period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be  refunded your payment.

 Pickup options: Select the “Free pickup today”  box in the search results page, then choose the pickup option at  checkout. If you order by 12 p.m. local time, the items should be  ready for pickup later that day. 
 What to do after you place your order: Wait  until you receive a pickup notification email before you go to  the designated location at the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and a  copy of the notification email. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  Forward the notification email to them to take to the  store along with their photo ID.
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Seven days. If your order isn’t picked up after this  time period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be refunded  your payment.



 Pickup options: Look for the “Free pickup today”  filter as you shop online. Most items are available for pickup  within four hours if they are in stock at a local store. Orders  placed after 4 p.m. local time will be available for pickup the  next day.
  When you search by “Free pickup + discount,” you can even get a  discount on select items if you choose to pick up in store. This  discount will be automatically applied when you complete your  order. 
 What to do after you place your order: Wait  until you receive a pickup notification email before you go to  the pickup desk at the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A copy of your Ready  for Pickup email. Orders over $200 require a photo ID.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  You can designate a pickup person during checkout or edit it  later in “Order details.” It may take up to four hours for the  new pickup person to update. This new person needs to bring a  copy of your Ready for Pickup email.
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Seven days. If your order isn’t picked up after this  time period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be refunded  your payment.

 Pickup options: During checkout, choose Store  Pickup and select your store. Best Buy will show you an estimated  pickup date. Depending on the item, it can be ready for pick up  as early as an hour.  
 What to do after you place your order: Wait  until you receive a pickup notification email before you go to  the Store Pickup counter at the store.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID, the  credit card used at checkout, and the order number.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  You can designate an alternate pickup person during checkout.  This person needs to bring their ID and order number. 
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Five days. If your order isn’t picked up after this time  period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be refunded your  payment. You can extend your pickup window by calling your local  store or contacting customer service. 

 Pickup options: Choose the “Pick Up In-Store”  option on the product page or in your cart. The filter is also  the first one you’ll see as you browse search results on the  website. Most items will be ready for in-store pickup  within two hours of the time you place your order.
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the Customer Service desk at the store to pick  up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and  the order number or copy of the notification email.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: You can designate an alternate pickup person  during checkout. This person needs to bring their ID, order  number, and notification email. 
 How long your order will be held at the  store: Seven days. Orders not claimed after that will be  available based on the product type and store location. If, after  30 days, you have not canceled or picked up your order, it will  be automatically refunded.

 Pickup options: On the product page, click the  “Free store pickup” tab next to “Ship.” You can also choose this  option in your shopping bag and during checkout.
  Orders are typically ready within two hours after they are placed  online. However, if you place an order after 7 p.m. local time,  it may not be ready until the next day. 
 What to do after you place your order: Wait  until you receive a pickup notification email before you go to  the Customer Service desk at the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and a  copy of the notification email. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  Add an alternate pickup person to the Pickup Option  section during checkout. This new person will need to bring a  photo ID and a copy of the notification email. 
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Seven days. If your order isn’t picked up after this  time period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be refunded  your payment. If you need more time, contact the store to request  an extension. 

 Pickup options: Each product page will  display “Pickup: See availability in other stores.”  Click this link, enter the zip code or the city where you’d like  to pick up the item, then select “Pick up” at checkout. 
  Some items, marked “Available Today,” will usually be ready  for pickup within an hour.
  You may also be able to select a window of time to pick up  your order. This check-in window will ensure that your order is  available shortly after you arrive. All you have to do is check  in with a specialist when you get to the store. If you’re unable  to come in during this time window, you can still pick up your  order, but wait times may vary.
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and  order number. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: Select “Someone else will pick up these items” at  checkout. This new person will need to bring a photo ID and the  order number.
 How long your order will be held at the store:  21 days. You will get reminder emails every week until  the 21st day, at which point Apple will cancel your order and  refund your purchase. 

 Pickup options: Select “Pick up in store” in  step one of checkout. When you place your order, you will be  given an estimated arrival date. You will not be charged for your  order until you pick it up in store. Note: Many bike brands can  be shipped to select REI stores only. They cannot be shipped to  your home or other addresses. 
 What to do after you place your order: Wait  until you receive a pickup notification email before you go to  the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and copy  of the notification email. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the order:  Forward the notification email to them to take to the store along  with their photo ID. REI also suggests contacting the store  directly to let them know someone else will be picking up your  package.
 How long your order will be held at the store:  14 days. If you need more time, contact the store to  request an extension. 

 Pickup options: Enter your zip code at  checkout or on any product page to view that product’s  availability at your local store. Then select the Pickup option  at checkout. You can choose a date and time that’s  convenient for you to pick up your order. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait to receive an order confirmation email with  detailed directions for either picking up your order in the store  or, in most locations, having an employee bring your order  directly to your car. 
 What you need at the store: The order  confirmation number. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: All they need to do is bring the order  confirmation number to the store. 
 How long your order will be held at the store:  30 days. If your order isn’t picked up after this time  period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be refunded your  payment.

 Pickup options: Select “Check store  availability” as you shop online, then select “Same day pickup”  at checkout. You can also filter items by “Free same day pickup”  in every category. 
  Orders are typically ready within four hours. For same-day  pickup, orders must be placed by 3 p.m. local time. Otherwise,  they might not be available until the next day. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the designated location at the store to pick up  your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID,  the credit card used at checkout, and the order number. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: You can designate the alternate pickup person  when ordering, and they will receive the notification email. The  new person needs to bring a photo ID and the order number.  
 How long your order will be held at the store:  10 days. If your order isn’t picked up  after this time period, it will be canceled and you’ll be  refunded your payment. If you need more time, contact the store  to request an extension. 

 Pickup options: At Bed Bath & Beyond, you  don’t purchase the item online. Instead, you select “Reserve now”  on the product page. An authorization for $1 will appear on your  card, but this will disappear in 24 to 48 hours. You only pay for  your order once you’ve picked it up in store. Orders are  typically ready within two hours. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the designated location at the store to pick up  your item.
 What you need at the store: A copy of the  notification email. 
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: Anyone can pick up your order as long as they  have a copy of the notification email and a valid form of  payment. 
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Two days. If your order isn’t picked up  after this time period, your order will be canceled. If you need  more time, contact the store to request an extension. 

 Pickup options: Choose “Free in-store pick up”  when placing your order online, then select your store. Orders  are typically ready within two hours. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email  before you go to the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID and  the order number.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: Call the store to let them know the name of the  alternate pickup person. The new person will need to bring a  photo ID and copy of the notification email. 
 How long your order will be held at the store:  Five days. If your order isn’t picked up  after this time period, your order will be canceled and you’ll be  refunded your payment. If you need more time, contact the store  to request an extension. 

 Pickup options: Choose “Pick up in store today”  when placing your order online and check availability at stores  near you. Orders are ready the same day when ordered by 3 p.m. in  your local time zone. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification email or  text before you go to the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A  government-issued photo ID and the order confirmation  number.
 If you’d like someone else to pick up the  order: Identify the alternate pickup person at checkout.  They will need to bring a photo ID and copy of the notification  email. 
 How long your order will be held at the  store: Seven days. If your order isn’t  picked up after this time period, your order will be canceled and  you will be issued a refund. 

 Pickup options: Choose “In-store availability”  when placing your order online and check availability at stores  near you. If available, reserve the item with your name, email,  and phone number. 
 What to do after you place your order:  Wait until you receive a pickup notification call before  you go to the store to pick up your item.
 What you need at the store: A photo ID  that matches the credit card used to make the purchase and a  confirmation of your order.  
 How long your order will be held at the  store: Seven days. If your order isn’t  picked up after this time period, you will be contacted about  getting a credit.