Saturn has unseated Jupiter as the solar system’s most  moon-bearing planet, the Carnegie Institution for Science    announced on Monday. 
  Scientists discovered 20 previously unknown moons orbiting  Saturn, which gives Saturn a grand total of 82 moons, flying past  Jupiter’s 79. 
  The discovery unlocks a trove of possible new hints at how Saturn  and its moons became what they are today.
  “Using some of the largest telescopes in the world, we are now  completing the inventory of small moons around the giant  planets,” Scott Sheppard, a Carnegie astronomer who led the  discovery team, said in a press release. “They play a crucial  role in helping us determine how our solar system’s planets  formed and evolved.”
  Each of the newly discovered moons is about 3 miles (5  kilometers) in diameter, and 17 of them orbit in retrograde, or  in the opposite direction of Saturn’s rotation. One of them is  now the farthest known moon from Saturn.
 
  The discoveries join three groups of Saturn’s outer moons,  clustered by the angles at which they orbit the planet. The  retrograde moons join the Norse group (all named after Norse  mythology), while two others join the Inuit group (named for  Inuit mythology), and the final moon goes with the Gallic group  (again, mythology). 
  Scientists think each of those groups may have come from a larger  moon that broke apart into smaller bodies.
  “This kind of grouping of outer moons is also seen around  Jupiter, indicating violent collisions occurred between moons in  the Saturnian system or with outside objects such as passing  asteroids or comets,” Sheppard said.
  The new Gallic moon orbits much farther away than its companions  though, suggested that something has pulled it outward, or that  it didn’t come from the same collision as the other moons at all.
  Further study can help determine what sort of collisions created  the groupings we see today, and what the conditions around Saturn  looked like at the time.
  The researchers observed the new moons with the Subaru telescope  atop Mauna Kea in Hawaii. They could watch the moons orbiting  Saturn, as in the below animation Sheppard made using images  taken one hour apart by the Subaru telescope. The previously  unknown moon (highlighted by orange bars) moves against a  backdrop of stars and galaxies that appear still because of their  distance.


  Following the discovery of more moons orbiting Jupiter last year,  Sheppard and the Carnegie Institution held an online competition  to name them. They’re taking the same approach with this new  group of moons.
  “I was so thrilled with the amount of public engagement over the  Jupiter moon-naming contest that we’ve decided to do another one  to name these newly discovered Saturnian moons,” Sheppard said.  “This time, the moons must be named after giants from Norse,  Gallic, or Inuit mythology.”
  People have already started sharing their name ideas on Twitter.  American Mensa, an organization for people who score in the top 2  percent on the standardized intelligence test, suggested  the name “Moony McMoonface” in reference to   an online submarine-naming competition gone gloriously wrong,  but given the criteria, that probably won’t happen.
  Others suggested names along Sheppard’s guidelines, including the  hunter-warrior Fionn  from Irish lore and Sila,  the Inuit god believed to govern life and breath.
  To submit your  suggestion, tweet it to @SaturnLunacy with the hashtag  #NameSaturnsMoons.