Monaco is known across the globe for its wealthy residents,    luxurious yacht shows, and for being the home of   Europe’s longest-ruling royal family. 
  Although Monaco is one of the smallest countries in the world, it  is also one of the richest per capita. According to   Fox Business, Monaco has a wealth per capita of $2.1 million.  A zero income tax policy in the country attracts the super-rich  to its shores and an estimated 32% of Monaco residents are  millionaires. 
 Read more:   15 astounding facts about Monaco, the tiny French Riviera  city-state where 32% of the population is made up of  millionaires
  One member of the Monegasque royal family who is well known  within high society and the fashion elite is Tatiana Santo  Domingo.
  The granddaughter of a wealthy beer brewing tycoon, the  American-born heiress has a net worth of $2 billion.   Forbes confirmed to Business Insider that, as of October 7,  2019, Santo Domingo is the richest citizen of Monaco. (There are  other residents of Monaco, who are not citizens, with even higher  net worths.)
  Here’s everything we know about the uber-wealthy socialite and  member of the Monegasque royal family.

  Source: Forbes


  She was raised in Geneva, Switzerland, but has lived in Paris,  Rio, France, and London throughout her life.
 Source:   Vanity Fair

  As the owner of Bavaria, one of the largest breweries in South  America, he later traded his ownership for a 15% stake in  SABMiller, making the entire Santo Domingo family extremely  wealthy.
 Source:   Forbes

  When he died in 2011, one-sixth of his enormous wealth was left  to Tatiana.
 Source:   The New York Times,   Hello Magazine

  The elite boarding school is one of the   most expensive schools in the world. The price to attend is  as much as $130,000 annually for tuition and boarding. The school  is also the oldest in Switzerland. One of the campus’ buildings,  the Château du Rosey, was built in the 14th century, while the  school was founded in 1880.
 Read more:   An exclusive look inside the world’s most expensive school, where  tuition fees are more than £87,000 a year
 Source:   Vanity Fair

  She majored in visual communications, with a concentration in  photography.
 Source:   Vanity Fair, Muzungu Sisters,    IACBE

  She is married to Andrea Casiraghi, nephew of Monaco’s reigning  monarch, Prince Albert, and the grandson of American  actress-turned-royal Grace Kelly.
 Source:   Harper’s Bazaar

  In 2014, with the birth of Prince Albert II and Princess  Charlene’s twins, Princess Gabriella and Prince Jacques, the line  of succession changed, making Andrea Casiraghi fourth in line to  the throne.
 Source:   Town and Country,   National Constitution Center

  The bride wore a V-neck Missoni dress with three-quarter-length  sleeves and flat silver sandals, while Santo Domingo’s  bridesmaids wore designer dresses from Dolce & Gabbana and  Valentino.
 Source:   Vogue

 Source:   W Magazine

  In accordance with Monaco’s rules about legitimacy and  eligibility to the throne, legitimate heirs must be related by  birth to the ruler, and their parents must be married. However,  when the two wed in 2013, Sacha became fifth in line to the  throne.
 Source:   Constitution of the Principality

  Maximilian was named after Rainier III, the late Prince of Monaco  and husband of Grace Kelly.
 Source:   W Magazine

  Italian fashion heiress Margherita Missoni is a member of Santo  Domingo’s inner circle, and the two have been spotted together at  multiple fashion shows and industry events.
 Source:   Vogue

  Here the socialite is pictured at the Giambattista Valli Haute  Couture Spring Summer 2017 show with Diane Von Furstenberg and  her granddaughter Talita Von Furstenberg.
 Source:   Getty Images

  She previously held a position at the Aeffe fashion house in New  York under creative director Giovanni Biancho. She also  reportedly held a position at Vanity Fair.
 Source: Muzungu  Sisters

  Alikhani has held positions at the United Nations High Commission  for Refugees (UNHCR) and at the Human Rights Watch in New York.  She’s also served as a Middle East political analyst for a global  business risk consultancy in London.
 Source:   W Magazine

  The brand’s website claims that purchases “stimulate local  economies” in India, Morocco, Peru, South Africa, Colombia, and  more.
  Dresses, tops, and skirts on the site hover around $150 to $300,  while the brand’s iconic basket bags go for around $350.
 Source: Muzungu  Sisters

 Source: Muzungu  Sisters

  In 2015, the heiress revealed to W  Magazine that her favorite spots for going out on the town  were Bar Pitti and Indochine in New York, Ferdi in Paris, and  Maggie’s Club in London.

  As for her favorite footwear, the free-spirited billionaire said  she prefers to be barefoot whenever possible.
 Source: W  Magazine