With the weather cooling down, you’ve probably already thought  about changing your wardrobe – swapping out tanks and shorts for  cozy knits and long pants. Sweater weather means more than just  ditching your cutoffs though. If you want to keep that summer  glow, you’ll need to update your skin- and body-care routines to  keep up with the cooler, drier fall air. 
  And who better to help you make that transition than skin-care  scientists from Procter & Gamble, parent company of popular  personal-care brands like Native, SK-II, and Olay. We’re  sharing some of the best fall skin-care tips, according to 18  Procter & Gamble skin-care scientists themselves. From adding  new products to your regimen to getting creative with how you  moisturize, they shared plenty of helpful tips and tricks that’ll  help transition skin from summer to fall.
  Some of the products included may be ones that these scientists  developed themselves, though many are ones they swear by in their  own lives regardless of brand. Where they have not suggested  specific brands, we offer recommendations based on our own  expertise. If you’re looking to transform your skin-care routine  for fall, but don’t know where to start, keep reading.

  Feet are often overlooked when it comes to body care, but after  long days spent in stuffy shoes, your feet need some extra  attention to get rid of calluses, blisters, and dry skin. Nicole  Russell, research specialist at Procter & Gamble, swears by Aquaphor to keep her  feet feeling soft.
  “I apply Aquaphor to my feet and then put socks on to help  keep my feet moisturized,” she said. “I will also use feet  exfoliating masks to help exfoliate my feet.”



  Dry air can really dehydrate your skin. To keep it at bay, use a  really hydrating moisturizer – and use it often. 
  “I use Cetaphil Lotion ALL over my body after showering,”  Procter & Gamble Section Head Angelica Brown said. The  non-greasy formula is super-hydrating, but still lightweight  enough to use on your face as well as your body. 
 Check out our guide to the best body moisturizers you can buy  for even more recommendations.



  Moisturizing is great for dry skin, but exfoliating every so  often can help your moisturizer work even better. Skin feels  immediately softer after sloughing off dead skin cells and adding  lotion or oil to the skin after exfoliating will retain  moisture for a supersoft feel. 
  Tori Moore, scientist at Procter & Gamble, knows the power of  this combination. “I really like to focus on hydration and  exfoliation because ash is nothing to play with as the season  changes!” she said.
  Halima Moncrieffe, PhD, assistant professor of pediatrics at  Procter & Gamble, also prioritizes exfoliation in the fall,  though her product of choice is a facial brush. With exfoliants,  she cautions to watch “for any changes that may be caused through  overuse like excess oils or outbreaks.”
  We  recommend the Fresh Brown Sugar Scrub  because it uses a combination of  natural ingredients that exfoliate and moisturize all in  one.  
 You can find even more recommendations for great body scrubs in our guide here. 

 Coconut oil can do it all.  While many use it in the kitchen, its hydrating, antibacterial,  and antifungal properties make it safe and healthy for use on  skin too. When the weather cools down, Shameika Wilmington,  senior scientist at Procter & Gamble, turns to heavy oils to  keep her face moisturized. There are many  different coconut oils to choose from, but this one has  over 5,500 5-star reviews on Amazon for its high quality and affordable price.  
 If you don’t love coconut oil, check out our guide to  the best body oils you can buy for  more great options. 

  Whether your skin-care concern is acne or wrinkles, retinol  promises a fix. The (almost magical) ingredient can help mitigate  the signs of aging, acne, hyperpigmentation, and more. Tori  Moore, scientist at Procter & Gamble, calls the ingredient  “the secret sauce to smooth, younger-looking, even-toned skin.”
 Check out our guide to the best retinol products you can buy to  find a retinol product that’s right for you.

  At the end of the day, what we put inside our bodies is  just as important as what we put on the outside. That’s why  Halima Moncrieffe, PhD, assistant professor of Pediatrics at  Procter & Gamble, makes sure to drink lots of water to keep  skin feeling fresh. 
  “Healthy skin comes from the inside out,” she said. “I like to  keep hydrated with filtered water  that I carry around in a  metal bottle to reduce chemicals from plastic.” We recommend  S’well water bottles to anyone looking for a practical stainless  steel option in fun colors and designs. 
 If you don’t have a water bottle, check out our guide to  the best water bottles you can buy  to find one that’s right for you.

  Astral cream has been around for more than 60 years, and its  formula has stayed the same the whole time. So it’s clear that  people find it effective. Halima Moncrieffe, PhD, assistant  professor of pediatrics at Procter & Gamble, includes this  popular British product in her cold-weather body-care routine to  keep skin “glowing and protected against the elements.”

  Antioxidant vitamin E is said to combat free radicals and help  repair skin damage. “I like to return to a heavier vitamin E  cream as my main moisturizer and then layer a thin sunscreen  product on top of that,” Procter & Gamble Research Specialist  Nicole Russel said. This soothing cream from Bluemercury’s in-house  brand, M-61, has a rich texture that’ll nourish dry skin.  

  Depending on how dry your skin gets in the cold weather, it could  benefit you to double up on moisturizing agents, like lotions and  creams. Lola Kelly Smalls, beauty clinical section head at  Procter & Gamble, lives by this method. “I will layer up a  petrolatum based product and/or shea butter with lotion to ensure  that my skin stays protected and moist,” she said. Over 1,500  Amazon shoppers give this product 5 stars. One shopper even  said this shea butter “saved [their] dry winter skin in a matter of  one day.”

  Some body washes can strip skin of natural oils, so in the fall  opt for one that includes hydrating ingredients to keep moisture  in. Tina Allen, beauty clinical trial manager at Procter &  Gamble, has been on the Personal Cleansing Clinical Team for most  of her 11 years at the company. After being involved in many Olay  Body Wash clinical studies over the years, she still goes back to  this moisturizing option from the brand. She likes to follow up  with Olay Quench Lotion to lock the hydration in. 
  But Procter & Gamble scientists aren’t the only ones who  champion the Ultra Moisture Body Wash – more than 1,000  reviewers on Amazon give the product 5 stars. 
 (Editor’s note: Products listed are Procter & Gamble  products.)