The Indianapolis Colts pulled off one of the most stunning upsets  of the NFL season on Sunday night, giving the Kansas City Chiefs  their first loss of the year.
  It was a team effort that helped the Colts to victory, with a  stout defense holding what is widely considered the best offense  in the league to just 13 points. It was the first time the Chiefs  have been held below 26 points since Patrick Mahomes took over as  the team’s starting quarterback.
  But supporting that defensive effort was an impressive rushing  attack from the Colts led by the offensive line and Marlon Mack.  He went off for 132 yards on 29 carries and was a key factor in  sealing the victory in the fourth quarter.
 Read more: Top 13 waiver-wire pickups for Week 6 of  fantasy football
  According to head coach Frank Reich, relying on the run was a  part of the plan all along, and a key component of the team’s  success was a complete buy-in from quarterback Jacoby Brissett.
  After the game, Reich told Peter King of NBC  Sports that Brissett had total confidence in Mack and the  offensive line to close out the win.
  “Before our last series, Jacoby said to me, ‘Hey, let’s go run it  down their throats,'” Reich told King.
  It had been apparent all day that the Colts best way of attacking  the Chiefs defense was on the ground, and Mack made the most of  his opportunities.


Marlon Mack's footwork is a thing of beauty ???????? @Marlon_Mack25 pic.twitter.com/3ClOlfWyHb
— The Checkdown (@thecheckdown) October 7, 2019




  The idea of running between the tackles to close out a game might  seem a bit quaint in the modern NFL, especially against the  mad-dash offensive attack of the Chiefs. But for the Colts, it  was the right call, allowing Brissett and the offense to control  the clock and tempo of the game’s final stretch.
  With the Colts holding a 13-10 lead heading into the fourth  quarter, Indianapolis committed to running the ball with great  success.
  After taking over possession close to midfield, the Colts worked  the clock on a methodical 14-play, 35-yard drive that ate up 8:34  to set up a field goal. When their defense forced a turnover on  downs, Indianapolis repeated the attack, forcing the Chiefs to  use their timeouts and putting up another field goal to take a  two-score lead at 19-10.
  By the time the Chiefs got the ball back, they had needed to  score twice in the final 2:27 of the game to win but only managed  a field goal. The Colts ran the ball on 17 of their last 19 plays  from scrimmage and ran the clock and their opponent’s chances out  with it.
  With the win, the Colts moved to 3-2 on the season – a result  Indianapolis fans have to be pleased with after the abrupt  retirement of Andrew Luck threatened to cut their hopes before  the year even began.
 Steelers quarterback Mason Rudolph knocked  out cold after hit but walks off field in scary scene
 Raiders knocked out of field goal range  after Richie Incognito gets flagged for shoving a Bears player’s  face into the ground
 Former NFL wide receiver Percy Harvin says he  was high for every game he played in his 8-year career
 Patrick Mahomes has joined the exclusive ’99  Club’ in ‘Madden 20.’ Here are the other 4 best players in the  NFL, according to the game.