I own an insane amount of sneakers (I’ve seriously lost count)  with pairs ranging from vintage Air Jordans from the ’90s to the  latest releases from startups and big brand names. Even though I  have such a wide spectrum of styles, one thing that I can say  about each and every pair that I’ve worn – and I try to wear all  of my sneakers – is that I always re-lace them before  putting them on for the first time.
  Maybe it’s just my extremely close attention to detail, but I  find that redoing the laces is a quick and easy way to improve  the aesthetic of the sneakers or to add a unique flair to one’s  style.
  While most sneakers come out of the box laced up and ready to  wear, you’ll regularly find laces that are uneven, twisted, in  the wrong pattern, or simply pulled way too tight. You have to  consider that the factory worker who laced up your sneakers is  tasked with lacing hundreds of shoes in a row, so some degree of  sloppiness is bound to happen.
  There are an endless amount of ways to lace your shoes, but I’ll  walk you through a few of my favorite patterns that anyone should  be able to do with ease.

  The first step to lacing your sneakers neatly is to make sure the  lace tips are even. Put each lace tip in the first set of eyelets  from the top and pull the lace tight, while making sure it stays  even.
  This is super important regardless of what lace style you choose  because unevenness will become more noticeable when you reach to  final eyelets. If they’re too uneven, you won’t be able to tie  your shoes.
  Note: The shoe pictured above is the Nike Air Force 1 Low with  removable Swooshes. The removable Swooshes come in dark wash  denim, medium wash denim, and tan leather, so you’ll be able to  come up with a variety of looks.



  Most shoes come with a standard diagonal-and-under lace pattern,  and for a classic shoe like the Air Force 1, I think it’s  fitting. However, they come out of the box laced super tight,  usually very messy, and uneven. To make it look much neater,  simply redo it.
  Once you’ve made sure the laces are even, you can start the  diagonal pattern going to the second set of eyelets. Start lacing  them criss-cross style, with the first lace going over and down  into each eyelet, rather than coming up through the eyelets. Be  sure to follow the same pattern exactly, so that the lace going  to the right side is always under and the lace going to the left  is always over (or vice versa). 
  When you move on to the second shoe, you should follow the same  pattern so that both shoes have the laces going in the same  direction. If you lace your shoes up and something just doesn’t  look right, but you can’t quite pinpoint it, you probably messed  up the pattern somewhere. Consistency is the key to making your  sneakers look neat and clean.



  The shoe toward the back is still factory-laced, while the shoe  in the front is redone. Although it’s the same pattern, the shoe  in the front is slightly looser and much neater.



  I ultimately went with the diagonal-and-over pattern for my new  Air Force 1s, and it’s just as easy to do as the  diagonal-and-under pattern. Instead of going through the eyelets  from the bottom, simply go through the top and remember to follow  the same consistent pattern on both shoes. This is a super clean  look – far better than any stock brand photo, if I do say so  myself.
  And if you’re wondering about my jeans, they’re Mott & Bow’s Skinny Warren in  Medium Blue.

  If the standard diagonal-and-under or diagonal-and-over patterns  are too basic for you, the loop-back is a cool style you probably  won’t see others sporting. Instead of going across the tongue of  the shoe, the pattern consists of intertwined loops going up both  sides of the shoe. 
  I decided to do this pattern on a pair of Comme Des Garçons PLAY x Converse  Chuck 70s I got for my girlfriend. Aside from the solid color Chuck 70s, the CDG  collaboration is probably the most popular Chuck 70, so I wanted  to do something unique.
  In the picture above, you’ll see the loop-back pattern completed  on the first two sets of eyelets and the next loop ready to  continue the pattern.

  Once you create a loop on one side of the shoe, simply put the  other lace through the loop and bring it back to the next eyelet  on the same side. After you loop them together, pull them evenly  so the point at which they cross is in the middle of the tongue –  not too far to the left or right of the shoe.

  Compared to the normal diagonal-and-over pattern (seen on the  sneaker in the background), the loop-back pattern is cool and  unique – definitely not something you’ll see every day. 
  In my opinion, Converse are some of the best  sneakers for showing off your personality, so any lace style is  fair game. The loop-back is one of my favorites though.

  The straight pattern can be a little bit tricky since much of the  lacework is hidden underneath the eyelet panels. First, follow  the blue arrows in the picture above, which indicate the hidden  lacing. Then follow the yellow arrows, which indicate lacing  across the tongue. 
  Note: The shoes pictured above are the Nothing New low tops. They are  sustainably made from 100% recycled plastic. Read my full review to learn more  about the brand. 

  Simply continue the pattern until you reach the top of the  eyelets. Since a good portion of the lacework is hidden along the  sides of the eyelet panels instead of going across the shoes, you  won’t be able to tighten the shoes very well by pulling on the  laces.
  With that said, the straight pattern is good for shoes that  you’ll only wear casually. If you plan on tightening your shoes  for secure lockdown while playing sports or working out, you’ll  want to lace your sneakers normally.

  The lacing might be intricate, but the final look is simple and  very fitting for a casual shoe.

  Swapping in different color laces is another great way to add an  original look to your sneakers. Shoes sometimes come with extra  laces, but more often, they don’t. All three sneakers I used in  this review didn’t come with extra laces.
  Whether you’re looking for a different color that didn’t come  included or you’re replacing a beat-up pair, Amazon  is a solid place to shop. 
  You’ll find a variety of lace styles, colors, and lengths, but  one of the best deals is this 20-count variety pack for  $9.99.
  Typically, 40-inch and 45-inch laces are good for low-tops, while  54-inch laces are good for high-tops and boots. If you’re unsure  of which length you need, measuring the laces you currently have  in your shoes is a fail-safe way to get the right length.