This story is breaking. Check back for updates.
  House Democrats are worried that President Donald Trump’s congressional  allies will leak the identity of an anonymous whistleblower and  are considering taking unprecedented steps to protect that person  as they prepare to testify, the Washington Post reported.
  In particular, Democrats are weighing letting the whistleblower  testify at a remote location away from Capitol Hill. They’re also  debating over masking the individual’s voice and face.
  The revelation is indicative of the extraordinary stakes at play  as lawmakers prepare to hear from the whistleblower – a CIA  officer – who in their complaint accused Trump of violating  federal law and using his public office for private gain.
  At the heart of the controversy is a July 25 phone call Trump had  with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, during which he  repeatedly pressured Zelensky to investigate former Vice  President Joe Biden and his son for  corruption. Biden is a 2020 Democratic frontrunner and one of  Trump’s chief political rivals.
  Trump ordered his administration to  withhold a nearly $400 million military-aid package to  Ukraine days before the phone call.
  While the White House’s notes of the call show the US  president made no direct mention of offering aid in exchange for  Zelensky’s assistance in probing Biden, they confirm Trump  brought up how the US does “a lot for Ukraine” right before  asking Zelensky to do him a “favor, though” by investigating  Biden and discrediting the former special counsel Robert  Mueller’s Russia probe.
  In addition to accusing Trump of abusing his power and violating  federal law, the complaint says Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudy  Giuliani, is a “central figure” in Trump’s effort and that  Attorney General William Barr “appears to be involved as well.”
  Trump’s handpicked spy chief testified to Congress that the  complaint is “in alignment” with the memo.
  The intelligence community watchdog also deemed the complaint to  be “urgent” and “credible.” Last week, Trump confirmed the  complaint’s central allegation – that he wanted a foreign  government to investigate a political opponent – when he publicly  called for both Ukraine and China to look into the Bidens.
  Despite the public evidence supporting the whistleblower’s  allegations – much of which came from either Trump or the White  House – the president and his allies have accused the official of  committing espionage. Trump has also suggested the whistleblower  and the officials they learned their information from are guilty  of treason.