US military veterans in Congress sounded off in protest to  President Donald Trump’s decision to condone an anticipated  Turkish assault against the US-supported Kurdish militia in  northeastern Syria.
  The decision was made public late Sunday and forces roughly    1,000 US troops to step aside as Turkey prepares an offensive  against the Kurdish-majority Syrian Democratic Forces near its  border.
  “Last night’s announcement that the United States would be  abandoning the Kurds is another stark reminder that ‘American  First’ means ‘America Alone,'” Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego of  Arizona, an enlisted Marine Corps veteran who served in Iraq,  said in a statement. “President Trump attacks the very people and  relationships most needed to ensure our security. He throws his  own people under the bus – even his Defense Department, who were  reportedly blindsighted by the announcement. The President eats  his own.”
  “I urge the President to reconsider and take steps to ensure that  our Kurdish allies remain safe,” he added.
 Read more:   ‘You remain a frickin’ coward’: Trump taunting a 2020 Democratic  candidate and retired Marine isn’t a laughing matter for some  veterans
  Turkey claims that the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG)  and the SDF, are a threat with links to the Kurdistan Workers’  Party (PKK), a US-designated terrorist group operating in its  country. Kurdish troops, however, have led the ISIS fight on the  ground in Syria and northern Iraq. The tenuous relationship has  been evident as US forces struggled to establish a “safe zone”  buffer in northern Syria between the Kurds and Turkey.
  Trump, who previously sympathized with the Kurdish people,  described them as “great people” and that he wanted to help the  displaced group.
  “They fought with us, they died with us,” Trump said in a press  conference last year. “We lost tens of thousands of Kurds  fighting ISIS. They died for us and with us.”
  “We don’t forget, I don’t forget,” Trump added at the time.
  But following a phone call with Turkey President Recep Tayyip  Erdogan on Sunday, Trump reversed course by proclaiming on    Twitter that it was “time for others in the region … to  protect their own territory.”
 
 Read more:   7 Democratic lawmakers who served in the military and  intelligence agencies accuse Trump of ‘flagrant disregard for the  law’
  Other military veterans claimed Trump’s comments were expectedly  hollow.
  “‘We’ve got your back,’ these are words every American veteran  knows, we say that to one another, and we say it to our allies,”  Democratic Rep. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, a retired Marine  Corps officer who served in Iraq, said in a statement. “But Trump  says it to our enemies: Putin, Assad and Kim Jong-Un.”
  “Now he’s giving up our Kurdish allies – who’ve been some of the  toughest fighters in Iraq for three decades -because an  authoritarian Turkish president, more aligned with Russia than US  allies, asked him for a favor,” Moulton added.
  Republicans who have served in the military also eschewed Trump  and claimed the decision was “shortsighted and irresponsible.” 
  “This to me is just unnerving to its core,” Republican Sen.  Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a retired Air Force officer,  said on Fox News.
  Graham added that the move would ultimately hamper the fight  against the Islamic State and reassure “the reemergence of ISIS.”
  Kurdish forces who have detained roughly 10,000 ISIS militants in  makeshift prisons are expected to abandon their posts for the  looming battle. The ISIS prisoners, which include foreigners  whose host nations are reluctant to readmit them, will be taken  into custody by Turkey, the White House said without specifics on  Sunday.