
Every age has its issues. In early 19th century Vermont, banking was as hot a topic as any. Banks have become such a part of the economic fabric of our world that it is hard to imagine a time when people argued over whether they should even be allowed to exist. But Vermont political factions argued over just that, both sides believing that the outcome would shape the character of society.

The United States got its first national bank in 1791, which, coincidentally, was the year Vermont joined the union. Only after an intense political struggle did the pro-bank faction, led by Alexander Hamilton, prevail. Supporters believed the national bank was essential to help the country pay off Revolutionary War debts and provide the financial liquidity the nation would need to evolve from an agrarian society into a commercial one. 
Get all of VTDigger's daily news.


Opponents, led by Thomas Jefferson, feared that by encouraging borrowing to promote manufacturing and trade, the bank would harm the country’s character. A pay-as-you-go economy was more compatible with virtue, they maintained. Instead of becoming commercial, the United States should remain agricultural, which they believed would promote an independent, virtuous citizenry. As Jefferson once wrote to a friend, “I hope we shall … crush in its birth the aristocracy of our moneyed corporations, which dare already to challenge our government to a trial of strength and bid defiance to the laws of our country.”

The arguments used during the national bank debate were repeated in Vermont in the early 1800s when it considered whether to form its own state bank. The banking question was forced upon Vermont by outside influences. Following the federal government’s lead, many states had created their own banks. As a result, notes from out-of-state banks, which acted as a kind of currency, began to circulate in Vermont. 

These banknotes had definite advantages over the common barter system, in which people swapped goods and labor. Barter transactions often required complex negotiations before goods could be swapped. In contrast, the notes were paper surrogates for gold or silver held by the issuing banks. At a time when coins were the main form of currency but were in short supply, these notes made it simpler for Vermonters to buy and sell goods. 

The disadvantages of paper money, however, were also clear. The notes were issued by distant banks of unknown solvency. Once you had accepted a note as part of a transaction, you had to find a way to get some value out of it. You could, of course, swap it with another willing party for goods or services. The problem was finding a person happy to make the exchange. The possibility that the bank would go bankrupt before the holder could convert the paper note into hard currency, usually gold or silver, meant that the notes traded at a discount. The farther they were used from the issuing bank, the less they were worth. Newspapers of the day even went so far as to print tables telling what the exchange rate was for promissory notes issued by various banks. 

Another issue was counterfeiting. With notes circulating from so many banks, people were not intimately familiar with how certain bills were supposed to look, which made life easy for all but the least competent counterfeiters.

“The only remedy which they could devise for this evil,” wrote Zadock Thompson in his 1842 “History of Vermont,” “was to establish banks within the state, which should furnish to the people a medium of their own, similar to that possessed by other states, and serve as a guard against the circulation of spurious bills and the bills of insolvent foreign banks.”
VTDigger is underwritten by:
EV - 300 x 250

Creating a state bank wasn’t easy, however. Vermonters had considered forming a government-backed bank while Vermont was still an independent republic. In 1786, Vermont, like the original 13 states, was in an economic depression and farmers were amassing large debts. Their creditors had loaned them hard cash and expected to be repaid in kind. The farmers, however, had spent the money. With coins in short supply, they had no way to repay the loans. The Legislature stepped in, passing a law requiring creditors to accept repayment with goods or labor that had a value comparable to the loan. Most Vermonters were happy with the solution. In a public referendum, they rejected creating a bank that would have issued paper notes and thereby made money more available.

The idea of a state bank resurfaced in the early 1800s. The Legislature debated the issue during its 1803 session after citizens sought to have state banks chartered in Burlington and Windsor. 

The bank found backers among merchants and others in the Connecticut River Valley. The area was connected by commerce to Boston and points south. A state bank would issue state-backed currency and credit and so would improve business prospects. Many in the valley, however, continued to oppose the banks on the philosophical grounds that surrendering to commerce would bring speculation to the state. In addition to harming the morals of the people, they argued, easy credit would create the great disparity of wealth that plagued Europe.

Allying with the bank supporters in the valley were members of the new class of merchants who had recently settled the northern Champlain Valley and other towns near the Canadian border. They looked north to Canada for trading partners, and supported a state bank, because it would bring ready credit that would facilitate trade.

The bank became a reality in 1806 when the Legislature approved creation of a state bank. The initial branches were in Woodstock, which replaced Windsor after residents there turned against the idea of a state bank, and in Middlebury, which was a compromise choice to appease a faction that opposed giving a branch to the upstart community of Burlington. The next year, however, Burlington, along with Westminster, was awarded a branch.

The Vermont State Bank was a great success, at first. People poured into the bank to deposit the gold and silver that would underlie the paper currency. Soon, however, they were lining up to borrow far more money than they had deposited.

